                               Welcome to SoundManager!

This document explains some of the features of the application.

                                        File import

To import audio files into the application, simply drag and drop files into the file table. Alternatively, you can also use the manual file import located in the file menu. You can choose whether the application creates a copy of the audio file when it is imported from the options menu. To delete a sound file, right click it on the table and select "Delete Item". Please note that this application only supports .wav and .aiff formats.

                                        Categories

To add categories to a sound file, right click it on the table and select a category from the "Add category" submenu. You can create your own categories either by selecting "New category" from the same menu or from the category header menu. Please note that a category will not be saved until it is assigned to at least one sound. To remove a category from a sound file, command right click the file on the table and select the category to be removed. A category can also be deleted from the category list by right clicking it and selecting "Delete Category", this will remove that category from all sound files. Please keep in mind that the default categories cannot be removed from the list, they will come back when the application is restarted (though that category will be removed from all sound files).

                                    Filtering the table

The table can be filtered by category or by name. To filter by category, select a category and only files assigned to that category are visible. To remove the filtering, command click the category. To filter by text, click the magnifying glass (shortcut F), type the text and press Enter. To remove the filtering, remove all text from the search bar. Please note that category and name filtering cannot be used at the same time.

                                        Transport

The transport offers standard playback features. Here are the shortcuts for the transport Control:
Play/Pause 'Spacebar'
Stop 'Backspace' or 'Enter'
Loop 'L'

To select a section of the audio file to playback, alt+left click the waveform and drag to select the section.

                                        Exporting
    
Audio files can be exported directly from the application. To do this, command+left click and drag the waveform.

A section of an audio file can also be exported. To do this, select a section to export, press to render button (next to the loop button) and once it has gone red, simply command+left click and drag the waveform as usual.

                        
